# Meeting 21.03.2019

## Questions

* It would be really nice, if Stuart was willing to contribute ethnographic insights on the matter

## Discussion/Announcements

* a realisation: number of filters cannot grow endlessly, every edit is checked against all of them and this consumes computing power! (signaled in various places) (and apparently haven't been chucked with Moore's law). is this the reason why number of filters has been more or less constanst over the years?

* Claudia thinks it's easier to implement a filter than a bot (less technical knowledge needed)
* Filter trigger before a publication, Bots trigger afterwads
  ** that's positive! editors get immmediate feedback and can adjust their (good faith) edit and publish it! which is psychologically better than publish something and have it reverted in 2 days
* thought: filter are human centered! (if a bot edits via the API, can it trigger a filter? Actually, I think yes, there were a couple of filters with something like "vandalbot" in their public comment)
* there seems to be a hart condition limit for filters: so the active ones are best of! which filters are best-of? a theory: "I've combated so and so many occurances of vandalism X with my bot. Let us implement a filter for this"
* what part of the quality control work do humans take over? (in contrast to the algorithmic mechanisms)
* what's filters' genesis story? why were they implemented? (compare with Rambot story) : try to reconstruct by examining traces and old page versions
* Huggle, Twinkle, AWB, Bots exist nearly since the very beginning (2002?), why did the community introduce filters in 2009?

## TODO

* code analysis: REGEXes --> what are suitable areas of application for rule-based systems?
  ** ask Herr Prechelt about code analysis resources
* Disclaimer on limitations: there was only one person who manually tagged the filters according to their purpose; this has following limitations: ...; (Claudia promises to tag a second time if we submit a paper to the CHI;)
* ask Aaron on IRC about the proper procedures to sumbit a patch for the abuse_history_table
* check confluence 22.02.2019 right column: core questions the thesis has to answer
* lit review: go through publications Stuart Geiger/Aaron Halfaker
* an ethnographic analysis as a part of the present work is not possible; (cs perspective, limited time)
* bring TOC for next meeting!
* make a long list of Interesting Questions (that we could maybe try to answer later if there's time)

## Fun Facts
