# Meeting 14.02.2019

## Questions

* Collect further data? IVs?
* What is the research question?/The "computer science perspective"?
  * How can we design a "better"/more efficient/more user friendly system? A system that reflects particular values (vgl Lessig, Code 2.0, Chapter 3, p.34)?
  * Do filters work the desired way/help for a smoother Wikipedia service or is it a lot of work to maintain them and the usefulness is questionable?
  * Precision/Recall: False Positives? were filters shut down, bc they matched more False positives than they had real value?
  * How has the notion of vandalism changed over time (not particularly computer sciency..)?
  * What are disallow/block filters doing? Is it too great an intervention that drives new editors away? (Can we answer that?)
  * Is it worth it to use a filter which has many side effects?
  * What are discussions on filter patterns? On filter repercussions?
  * What can we filter with a REGEX? And what not? Are regexes the suitable technology for the means the community is trying to achieve?
  * GT is good for tackling controversial questions: e.g. are filters with disallow action a too severe interference with the editing process that has way too much negative consequences? (e.g. driving away new comers?)

## TODO

* We need a description of the technical workings of the edit filter system!
* How can we improve it from a computer scientist's/engineer's perspective?
* What task do the edit filters try to solve? Why does this task exist?/Why is it important?
* Why are there mechanisms triggered befor an edit gets published (such as edit filters), and such triggered afterwards (such as bots)? Is there a qualitative difference?
* I want to help people to do their work better using a technical system (e.g. the edit filters). How can I do this?
* The edit filter system can be embedded in the vandalism prevention frame. Are there other contexts/frames for which it is relevant?
* really get hold of the abuse_filter_log table! Ask Hong/Marisa.

## Fun Facts

* A focus on the Good faith policies/guidelines is a historical development. After the huge surge in edits Wikipedia experienced starting 2005 the community needed a means to handle these (and the proportional amount of vandalism). They opted for automatisation. Automated system branded a lot of good faith edits as vandalism, which drove new comers away. A policy focus on good faith is part of the intentions to fix this.


