# Meeting 22.02.2019

## Questions

* Collect further data? IVs? /Stuart?
* Anmerkungen zum PDF?

* Further discussion: What is the research question?/The "computer science perspective"?
  * How can we design a "better"/more efficient/more user friendly system? A system that reflects particular values (vgl Lessig, Code 2.0, Chapter 3, p.34)?
  * Do filters work the desired way/help for a smoother Wikipedia service or is it a lot of work to maintain them and the usefulness is questionable?
  * Precision/Recall: False Positives? were filters shut down, bc they matched more False positives than they had real value?
  * How has the notion of vandalism changed over time (not particularly computer sciency..)?
  * What are disallow/block filters doing? Is it too great an intervention that drives new editors away? (Can we answer that?)
  * Is it worth it to use a filter which has many side effects?
  * What are discussions on filter patterns? On filter repercussions?
  * What can we filter with a REGEX? And what not? Are regexes the suitable technology for the means the community is trying to achieve?
  * GT is good for tackling controversial questions: e.g. are filters with disallow action a too severe interference with the editing process that has way too much negative consequences? (e.g. driving away new comers?)

## TODO

* central difference bots (nachgeschaltet) /filters (vorgeschaltet)
* define categories
  ** maintenance scheint nicht optimal zu sein
  ** warum gibts rule-based system (weil die Leute sie einfacher verstehen)? Wo haben die gescheitert gg체 ML systems?
  ** wie sieht der zeitliche Verlauf aus? Unterschied Art/# von Filtern die erzeugt werden 체ber die Zeit?

  * ML/ORES/Huggle/..

* Text:
  * epistemological interest -> contributions
    aktualisieren mit was wir in Confluence gemacht haben

  * putting things in perspective: algorithmische kontrolmechanismen
    ** add sources!

  * harassment und bullying raus aus dem "putting things in perspective" --> put in notes (benutzen als hintergrund f체r kategorisierung sp채ter, wenn relevant)

## Fun Facts



